---
layout: post
title: 'How to drive 3X times more traffic to your blog with Pinterest?'
subtitle: ''
date: 2017-04-18
categories: SEO
cover: 'https://i1.wp.com/www.whitepanda.in/blog/wp-content/uploads/2016/10/instantly-improve-pinterest-marketing-strategy.png?resize=770%2C578'
tags: Pinterest Startup Social Marketing  
---

With the advent of digitalisation, social media platforms like Facebook, Twitter, Pinterest, (and much more…) have become a choice for millions of users for the purposes of mass communication. These channels, in total, muster a hefty 31.5% of the human population amongst themselves, out of which, Pinterest has a dedicated user base of around 100 million users.

Quite popular among women as a “scrapbooking paradise”, with the top 30 Pinners including food, fashion, design, and wedding bloggers, it makes sense for you to more often, than not, push it under the rug, and neglect its significance because you think this platform isn’t for you, for any purpose other than sharing your latest recipe or a DIY project. Taking a glimpse at the creative marketing strategies used by some of the most eminent and impactful brands- be it Apple, Lowe’s, or Martha Stewart- who are investing a hefty lot of their total marketing budget on Pinterest, this seems to be contrary to the general expectations, and makes a clear room for bloggers, start-up’s, and entrepreneurs, to give pins, re-pins, and group boards, a try.

There’s power behind using Pinterest to drive traffic to your blog. Just take a look at these astounding facts:

A pin is a 100 times more spreadable than your average tweet.
Each pin can drive up to 2 page visits and 6 pageviews.
Think about the revenue the e-commerce sites make from pinning! Each pin can generate 78 cents.
The life of a pin is one week! Compare that to 24 minutes for Twitter, and 90 minutes for Facebook.
These statistics can be evidently established by the success stories of Pepe Jeans in India, Mashable, or Etsy. Pinterest is their number one referral source for social traffic.

So, what are the strategies you can employ in order to generate more organic leads using Pinterest? Here are five of them, which can be used to drive ridiculous amounts of traffic towards your blog or business.

### Sign up for a business account
To really see an impact made by your pinning efforts, go one step further, and sign-up for a free, Pinterest for a business account, or convert your existing account. You’ll be really amazed to see, what, a no-cost effort made, can actually do for your blog or business, backed by the relevant analytics and insights about your pins’ behaviour. You can also apply for Rich Pins, and use advanced features for enhanced functionality.

### Focus on your copy description
Generally speaking, for bloggers, the blog title, accompanied by a little description of the post, should be enough. However, for a pin to work wonders, it needs to be much more helpful and relevant, detailed, persuading, and actionable, with relevant and recognised SEO-friendly keywords.

### Time it all out
Focus on your target audience, and gain an insight into their most frequently used online hours of the day on Pinterest, by making the use of smart demographics from Pinterest’s analytics. Chart it out, and plan it accordingly, to suit your audience, so that your pins have the maximum outreach. For example, the peak-time for fashion and retail, is Friday, after 3 pm, while the worst hours consist of the normal working hours, which is obvious.

### Create pin-worthy images
Research suggests that visuals are processed 60,000x faster by the brain, as compared to text, and almost as much as 60 percent of the human population are visual learners. Hence, it factors in the usage of visuals and images into your pin, to a desirable level, for maximum audience engagement. Three parameters which have to be kept in mind while choosing a pinnable image are size (generally an aspect ratio of 2:3 or 4:5, is desired); context relevance, with an appropriate blend of vibrant colours; and the usage of quality text in your image.

### Join a Pinterest group board
A popular group board on Pinterest (which is a community board where others can pin) can help you a great deal in getting a traction, and gain more exposure for your blog. If you regularly pin to a group board, other people, who follow the board, will see your pins, and might be interested in them. If they like what they see, they will eventually convert into a dedicated follower base, for what you’ve got to offer.

Is it worth investing your time into following these simple strategies for your blog??? A big YES, as is evident by the fact that, Pinterest has been rated as, one of the fastest growing social networks over a period of years. So, calling all of you bloggers, in and around, to test and exhibit your image-making and marketing skills, in the high waters.
